# See documentation of this file in the README file.


fgrep -rn AdditiveExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn AllocationExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn AndExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn Annotation
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn AnnotationTypeBody


fgrep -rn AnnotationTypeDeclaration
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn AnnotationTypeMemberDeclaration


fgrep -rn ArgumentList
split/StatementReplacer.java


fgrep -rn Arguments
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
split/StatementReplacer.java
split/OrigFixer.java


fgrep -rn ArrayDimsAndInits


fgrep -rn ArrayInitializer


fgrep -rn AssertStatement


fgrep -rn AssignmentOperator
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn Block
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn BlockStatement
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn BooleanLiteral


fgrep -rn BreakStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn CastExpression


fgrep -rn CastLookahead


fgrep -rn ClassOrInterfaceBody
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/CheckerClass.java


fgrep -rn ClassOrInterfaceBodyDeclaration
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn ClassOrInterfaceDeclaration
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/CollectFieldsVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java
test/TestAst.java


fgrep -rn ClassOrInterfaceType
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/PptNameMatcher.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
test/TestClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn CompilationUnit
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/runtimechecker/CheckerClass.java
test/TestAst.java
test/TestClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn ConditionalAndExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn ConditionalExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn ConditionalOrExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn ConstructorDeclaration
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/PptNameMatcher.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn ContinueStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn DefaultValue


fgrep -rn DoStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn EmptyStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn EnumBody


fgrep -rn EnumConstant


fgrep -rn EnumDeclaration
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn EqualityExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn ExclusiveOrExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn ExplicitConstructorInvocation
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn Expression
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/OrigModifier.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
split/StatementReplacer.java
split/OrigFixer.java


fgrep -rn ExtendsList
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn FieldDeclaration
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/CollectFieldsVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn ForInit
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn FormalParameter
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/PptNameMatcher.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn FormalParameters
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn ForStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn ForUpdate
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn IfStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn ImplementsList
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn ImportDeclaration
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn InclusiveOrExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn Initializer
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn InstanceOfExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn LabeledStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn Literal
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn LocalVariableDeclaration


fgrep -rn MarkerAnnotation


fgrep -rn MemberSelector
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn MemberValue


fgrep -rn MemberValueArrayInitializer


fgrep -rn MemberValuePair


fgrep -rn MemberValuePairs


fgrep -rn MethodDeclaration
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/PptNameMatcher.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java
test/TestAst.java
test/TestClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn MethodDeclarator
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn Modifiers
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn MultiplicativeExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn Name
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/PptNameMatcher.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/OrigModifier.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
split/StatementReplacer.java
split/OrigFixer.java
test/TestAst.java
test/TestClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn NameList
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn NodeList
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/CollectFieldsVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java
split/StatementReplacer.java


fgrep -rn NodeListOptional
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/CollectFieldsVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java
split/StatementReplacer.java


fgrep -rn NodeOptional
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/CheckerClass.java


fgrep -rn NodeSequence
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/PptNameMatcher.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/OrigModifier.java
tools/jtb/CollectFieldsVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn NodeToken
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/OrigModifier.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java
split/StatementReplacer.java
split/OrigFixer.java


fgrep -rn NormalAnnotation


fgrep -rn NullLiteral


fgrep -rn PackageDeclaration
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/runtimechecker/CheckerClass.java


fgrep -rn PostfixExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn PreDecrementExpression
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn PreIncrementExpression
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn PrimaryExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/OrigModifier.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
split/StatementReplacer.java
split/OrigFixer.java


fgrep -rn PrimaryPrefix
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn PrimarySuffix
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/OrigModifier.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
split/StatementReplacer.java
split/OrigFixer.java


fgrep -rn PrimitiveType
tools/jtb/PptNameMatcher.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn ReferenceType
tools/jtb/PptNameMatcher.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn RelationalExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn ResultType
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn ReturnStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
split/StatementReplacer.java


fgrep -rn RSIGNEDSHIFT


fgrep -rn RUNSIGNEDSHIFT


fgrep -rn ShiftExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn SingleMemberAnnotation


fgrep -rn Statement
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn StatementExpression
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn StatementExpressionList


fgrep -rn SwitchLabel
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn SwitchStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn SynchronizedStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn ThrowStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn TryStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn Type
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/PptNameMatcher.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/InstrumentObserversVisitor.java
tools/jtb/CollectFieldsVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java
test/TestClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn TypeArgument
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn TypeArguments
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn TypeBound
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn TypeDeclaration
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ParseResults.java
tools/runtimechecker/InstrumentVisitor.java


fgrep -rn TypeParameter
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn TypeParameters
tools/jtb/ClassOrInterfaceTypeDecorateVisitor.java
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java
tools/jtb/AnnotateVisitor.java


fgrep -rn UnaryExpression
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn UnaryExpressionNotPlusMinus
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn VariableDeclarator
tools/jtb/Ast.java
tools/jtb/CollectFieldsVisitor.java
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn VariableDeclaratorId
tools/jtb/Ast.java


fgrep -rn VariableInitializer
split/Visitors.java


fgrep -rn WhileStatement
tools/jtb/ConditionExtractor.java


fgrep -rn WildcardBounds
