\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename valgrind-merge.info
@settitle Merging newer versions of Valgrind into Fjalar
@c %**end of header

@paragraphindent 0
@codequotebacktick on
@exampleindent 1

@titlepage
@sp 10
@center @titlefont{Merging newer versions of Valgrind into Fjalar}
@sp 4
@center @today{}
@end titlepage

@everyfooting @| @| @today{}

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Merging newer versions of Valgrind into Fjalar

This document describes how to update Fjalar, Kvasir, and DynComp
with newer versions of Valgrind and VEX.

@menu
* Introduction::
* Getting Started::
* Creating the diffs::
* Merging the changes::
* Updating Readelf from Binutils::
* Compiling and Testing::
* Committing::
* Valgrind modifications::
* Memcheck modifications::
* Supporting new VEX IR Instruction::
@end menu
@end ifnottex


@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

Fjalar is built as a tool on top of the Valgrind instrumentation framework.
It incorporates code from the Valgrind tool Memcheck.  When new
versions of Valgrind and Memcheck are released, Fjalar (and Kvasir)
should be updated
to incorporate the Valgrind/Memcheck changes. This document tells you
how to do so.

Conceptually, this is two separate updates: (1) Updating our underlying
copy of Valgrind to the newer version of Valgrind, and (2) Updating the
Memcheck code contained in Fjalar to the newer version of Memcheck. Due
to very tight dependence of the Memcheck code on Valgrind, the changes
should be done simultaneously. 

The update of the underlying copy of Valgrind can usually be done almost
automatically. Updating the Memcheck code often involves manual work,
due to substantial modifications to the Memcheck code that are incorporated
in Fjalar. The more frequent the merges are, the easier they will be to
do. Semiannually, at the very least, is recommended. 
(However, we are currently experimenting with merging only when an official
release is made.  This has the advantage of ensuring that the tool is more
stable, but the disadvantages of going longer between bug fixes and making
each merge larger and more difficult.)

Fjalar also contains code derived from the GNU Binutils
tool @command{readelf}.  @xref{Updating Readelf from Binutils} tells how
to update Fjalar when a new version of Binutils is released.

@menu
* Determining whether a merge is necessary::
@end menu


@node Determining whether a merge is necessary
@section Determining whether a merge is necessary

To determine whether a newer version of Valgrind is available, compare file
@file{fjalar/valgrind/REVISION} to URL
@url{http://valgrind.org/downloads/current.html}.

To determine whether a newer version of binutils is available, compare file
@file{fjalar/valgrind/REVISION} to URL
@url{http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/binutils/?C=M;O=D}.


@node Getting Started
@chapter Getting Started

The instructions in this document assume you use bash as your shell.
If you use a different shell, you will need to adjust the instructions
accordingly.  Also, we assume @env{$INV} points to a parent directory that
contains both the Daikon and Fjalar source trees.

@menu
* Obtain a copy of Daikon and Fjalar::
* Ensure your source is up to date::
* Verify current sources pass the regression tests::
* Obtain a copy of the base Valgrind and VEX source trees::
* Obtain a copy of the target Valgrind and VEX source trees::
* Remove files that have been removed upstream::
@end menu


@node Obtain a copy of Daikon and Fjalar
@section Obtain a copy of Daikon and Fjalar

(You may skip this step if you already have local clones of these repositories.)

Clone a copy of Daikon and Fjalar from our GitHub
repositories:

@example
export $INV=`pwd`
git clone https://github.com/codespecs/daikon.git
git clone https://github.com/codespecs/fjalar.git
@end example

If your operating system is Ubuntu, run
@example
sudo apt-get install binutils-dev
@end example
@c (but, the Kvasir tests do not pass on Ubuntu as of 9/2015!)


@node Ensure your source is up to date 
@section Ensure your source is up to date 

(If you just made fresh clones of the repositories, you may skip this step.)

Update your enlistment to the latest versions:

@example
cd $INV/daikon
git pull
cd $INV/fjalar
git pull
@end example

Ensure there are no local changes:

@example
cd $INV/daikon
git diff 
cd $INV/fjalar
git diff 
@end example

The diff commands should produce no output. If there are any differences,
commit and push them, then start over from the beginning. 

Ensure there are no outgoing changes:

@example
cd $INV/daikon
git log --branches --not --remotes
cd $INV/fjalar
git log --branches --not --remotes
@end example

The log commands should say "no changes found". If there are outgoing changes,
push them, then start over from the beginning. 


@node Verify current sources pass the regression tests
@section Verify current sources pass the regression tests

Re-compile Fjalar, then run the tests. (The tests take about 20 minutes.) 

@example
# Optional, to verify Daikon 
make -C $DAIKONDIR compile test

make -C $INV/fjalar build
make -C $INV/daikon/tests/kvasir-tests nightly-summary-w-daikon
@end example

The tests should pass. If any tests fail, fix them, then start over from
the beginning.  Or, run on a system, such as UW CSE, where all tests pass.

At this point, the source trees are ready for the merge.
However, the Fjalar repository contains
@command{automake/autoconf} generated files to simplify things for the end user;
also, there are many other build and test generated files that
need to be omitted to
simplify the output of the diff commands below. 

@example
cd $INV/fjalar
make very-clean
cd $INV/daikon
make very-clean
@end example

In addition, we don't want to continue to propagate deleted files.
You should run the following command to get a list of
all unknown (not tracked) files.  Review the list and in most cases
you will want to delete the file(s).

@example
cd $INV/fjalar
git ls-files --others --exclude-standard
@end example


@node Obtain a copy of the base Valgrind and VEX source trees
@section Obtain a copy of the base Valgrind and VEX source trees

First, make directory @file{valgrind-old} contain a copy of the Valgrind
source tree that was used the last time a Valgrind merge was performed.

If you performed the last merge and saved the
@file{valgrind-old} and @file{valgrind-new} directories, then just run:

@example
rm -rf valgrind-old
mv valgrind-new valgrind-old
@end example

Otherwise, run the following commands.

@example
cd $INV
source fjalar/valgrind/REVISION
svn co -r $VALGRIND_REVISION \
    svn://svn.valgrind.org/valgrind/trunk valgrind-old
cd valgrind-old
svn update -r $VEX_REVISION VEX
@end example

The VEX update command is necessary because the VEX instrumentation library
Valgrind is built on is stored in a separate SVN repository. A Valgrind
checkout will always check out the most recent version of the VEX source.
However, we want the version associated with the previous merge base.


@node Obtain a copy of the target Valgrind and VEX source trees
@section Obtain a copy of the target Valgrind and VEX source trees

Obtain a copy of the Valgrind source tree and call it
@file{valgrind-new}.

Decide on the version you will obtain, such as 
the most recent revision in the @uref{http://www.valgrind.org/downloads/repository.html,
Valgrind source code repository} or the most recent released version.

To obtain the most recent revision in the Valgrind source code repository:

@example
cd $INV
svn co svn://svn.valgrind.org/valgrind/trunk valgrind-new
@end example

To get the most recent release sources you first need to find the
associated revision numbers.  This can be done by looking at the
most recent source tags: 

@example
svn log -l3 svn://svn.valgrind.org/valgrind/tags 
svn log -l3 svn://svn.valgrind.org/vex/tags 
@end example

The revision number will be displayed at the far left as a number
preceded by the
letter "r" - such as r2796.  Remember these two revision numbers
for the following commands to fetch the source code:

@example
cd $INV
svn co -r @var{valgrind-revision-number} \
    svn://svn.valgrind.org/valgrind/trunk valgrind-new
cd valgrind-new
svn update -r @var{vex-revision-number} VEX
@end example

Here again, the VEX update is necessary because we (normally) want
the version associated with the last Valgrind release, not the most
current version.

@* @strong{IMPORTANT NOTE} @*
The method described above for getting a copy of a 
Valgrind release, while having been used successfully for some time,
is not technically correct.  We are getting a version from the main
source trunk as it stood at the time of the release, while the actual
releases are made from branches.
There will, almost always, be differences between the two approaches.  The
branch may not have the exact same set of changes as the trunk.
The correct method of getting a
particular release (3.10.1 for example) is:

@example
cd $INV
svn co svn://svn.valgrind.org/valgrind/tags/VALGRIND_3_10_1 valgrind-new
# (No need to update VEX in this case.)
@end example

We may wish to consider changing our approach to use the branch, or,
perhaps simpler, use the actual release tar ball from
@uref{http://www.valgrind.org/downloads/current.html}.



@node Remove files that have been removed upstream
@section Remove files that have been removed upstream

The following command lists
files that have been removed by the Valgrind developers since our last
merge:

@example
cd $INV
diff -qrb -x.svn valgrind-old valgrind-new |grep "Only in valgrind-old"
@end example

Remove these files.

This step could be done later, but we do it now to reduce the size
of the patch and diff files.


@node Creating the diffs
@chapter Creating the diffs

Run:

@example
$INV/fjalar/generate-patch-files.sh
@end example

This creates patch files showing what the Valgrind maintainers have
changed since
the last time Valgrind code was merged into Fjalar.
File @file{$INV/memcheck.patch} is for Memcheck, and
file @file{$INV/coregrind.patch} is for everything else (which
we'll call "Coregrind", and which includes VEX).

It also creates files
@file{memcheck-Fjalar.diff} and @file{coregrind-Fjalar.diff}
that show the Fjalar changes to Coregrind and Memcheck.
These will not be used for any automated patching, but for visual
verification later.


@node Merging the changes
@chapter Merging the changes

@menu
* Coregrind Merge::
* Coregrind Conflicts::
* Memcheck Merge::
* Memcheck Conflicts::
* Updating Fjalar/Kvasir::
@end menu


@node Coregrind Merge
@section Coregrind Merge

Now we can merge the changes from the created diffs. The Coregrind patch
should apply with very little conflicts.

It can be difficult to undo a patch operation, so you should first attempt
a dry run. 

@example
cd $INV/fjalar/valgrind
patch -p1 -lu < $INV/coregrind.patch --dry-run
@end example

If the patch fails, it might be indicative of problems in the above diffing.

When you are ready to apply the patch run:

@example
cd $INV/fjalar/valgrind
patch -p1 -lu < $INV/coregrind.patch
@end example

@strong{IMPORTANT NOTE} @*
This process fails for two different kinds of files,
both in the Valgrind test directories. First, new zero-length goal files
(@file{*.exp}) are not copied from valgrind-new to fjalar.  Second, 
executable scripts (typically named @file{filter_<test>}) are copied or updated,
but lose the execute file mode bit.  

While this is documented @command{patch} behavior, we need to add additional
steps to correct these problems. (documentation UNDONE)


@node Coregrind Conflicts
@section Coregrind Conflicts

Handle any conflicts. They are listed in the patch output, or run this
command:

@example
find -name '*.rej'
@end example

For every change in the file you will need to examine both the changed
code as well as our original code and determine if it needs to be hand
merged or if the change is not relevant. It may help to refer to
@code{coregrind-Fjalar.diff} during this process. Remove the @code{.rej}
and @code{.orig} files as you go, so that finally the @code{find}
command produces no output.


@node Memcheck Merge
@section Memcheck Merge

We use the @file{memcheck.patch} file to update Fjalar as its code is
derived from Valgrind/Memcheck.

@example
cd $INV/fjalar/valgrind/fjalar
patch -p2 -lu < $INV/memcheck.patch --dry-run
@end example

You should experiment with the fuzz factor option.  I find
that @option{-F3} often increases the success rate, but this is
dangerous as it ignores all the context in the patch file, which
increases the odds of a faulty patch.

If the patch output looks sane, continue with the actual merge:

@example
cd $INV/fjalar/valgrind/fjalar
patch -p2 -lu < $INV/memcheck.patch
@end example


@node Memcheck Conflicts
@section Memcheck Conflicts

Handle any conflicts. They are listed in the patch output, or run this
command:

@example
find -name '*.rej'
@end example

For every change in the file you will need to examine both the changed
code as well as our original code and determine if it needs to be hand
merged or if the change is not relevant.

Our changes to Memcheck are much more substantial than our changes to
Coregrind.

The largest modification to Memcheck is in @file{mc_translate.c} and special
care should be made to ensure it is present and up to date.
The function @code{MC_(instrument)} handles the instrumentation of calls for
DynComp.
It is primarily contained in a switch statement; each case handles one
VEX instruction type, and the body contains both the original code for
Memcheck and also the code for DynComp. After the update, you should
double-check that each clause contains corresponding code: any changes
to the Memcheck versions are reflected in the DynComp versions, and
any new clause has a DynComp version.


@node Updating Fjalar/Kvasir
@section Updating Fjalar/Kvasir

Like @file{fjalar/mc_translate.c},
@file{fjalar/kvasir/dyncomp_translate.c}
is derived from
@file{valgrind/memcheck/mc_translate.c}.  However, due to extensive 
modifications and appending @quoteleft{}@code{_DC}@quoteright{} to most
function names to avoid
conflicts, using the patch program with the @file{memcheck.patch} file
is of little use.
Instead, you will need to use @file{memcheck.patch} as a template for 
editing @file{fjalar/kvasir/dyncomp_translate.c} by hand.

One bit of confusion is that a portion of the original @file{mc_translate.c}
has been relocated to @file{fjalar/mc_translate.h} so it can be shared.

Additionally Fjalar/Kvasir need to be updated to properly handle any
changes in Valgrind API/functionality. For the most part Valgrind
maintains a relatively stable interface to its tools. Any tool-visible
changes should be noted in the change logs.

A somewhat more problematic area are changes in the VEX IR. DynComp
makes heavy use of the VEX IR, so any changes in it need to be
reflected. Most of the changes to the public VEX IR can be discovered
by running the following command:

@example
cd $inv/valgrind-new
svn log -r $@{VEX_REVISION@}:HEAD VEX/pub/libvex_ir.h
@end example

The files with all the VEX IR code for DynComp are located in
@file{dyncomp_translate.[ch]}. @file{dyncomp_translate.c} is structured primarily
into functions of the form @code{expr2tags_[EXPRESSION_TYPE]()}.
These functions will contain a switch for all VEX IR instructions
corresponding to the expression type and some call to a DynComp tag
function. Most often VEX IR changes will be syntactical in nature and
will only involve changing the names of the instructions. If the log
indicates that new VEX IR instructions have been added, they will need
to be explicitly supported by DynComp. Please see Appendix C for
guidelines on supporting new VEX instructions.


@node Updating Readelf from Binutils
@chapter Updating Readelf from Binutils

@menu
* Overview::
* Creating the binutil patch and diff files::
* Merging the binutil changes::
@end menu


@node Overview
@section Overview

[TODO: incorporate this text.]
The GNU Binutils are completely independent of Valgrind and have their
own home page (@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/binutils/})
and release site (@uref{http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/binutils/}).
While the majority of this document discusses how to update Valgrind,
there is a later chapter on updating the @command{readelf} code from Binutils.
For ease of verification, it is recommended that you do not update Valgrind
and Binutils at the same time.


The GNU Binutils (@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/binutils/})
are a collection of approximately twenty binary tools.
We are interested only in @command{readelf}, a tool that displays
information from an ELF format object file.  Fjalar does not use this
binary directly, rather a portion of the source code for Fjalar contains 
a modified version of the source used to build @command{readelf}.

As noted in the Introduction, the GNU Binutils are completely
independent of Valgrind and have their own release site
Browse to @uref{http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/binutils/?C=M;O=D} to see the most
recent release.

This site lists all the versions of Binutils that are available. If you
click on @command{Last modified} you will see the releases sorted by
date. Select the most recent version and download the tar file to
your machine.  After unpacking, you will have a directory structure
whose root is @file{binutils-<version>}. 
To complete the update process, you will need a copy of both the current
version within Fjalar and the version you wish to update to.
Also, the instructions assume that the Binutils directories are at the
root of your home directory.


@node Creating the binutil patch and diff files
@section Creating the binutil patch and diff files

First, we create patch files showing what the Binutils
maintainers have
changed since the last time the readelf code was merged into Fjalar.
There are two patch files: one for the include files and one for the
actual readelf files.

For the example instructions that follow, substitute the current version
for @file{binutils-old}, e.g. @file{binutils-2.24} 
and the new version for @file{binutils-new}, e.g. @file{binutils-2.25}.


@example
# Adjust these first two lines as necessary
export BUOLD=$HOME/binutils-2.24
export BUNEW=$HOME/binutils-2.25
cd ~
diff -ur $BUOLD/include $BUNEW/include >> ~/include.patch
diff -u  $BUOLD/libiberty/dwarfnames.c \
         $BUNEW/libiberty/dwarfnames.c >> ~/include.patch
diff -ur $BUOLD/binutils $BUNEW/binutils > ~/binutils.patch
@end example

Next, we create diff files comparing the old Binutils to the current 
versions in Fjalar.  These diffs will not be used for automated
patching, but for visual verification assistance.  As the majority of 
the files should patch quite well, we prepare diffs for only the two
largest and most complicated files.

@example
cd $INV/fjalar/valgrind/fjalar
diff -ub $BUOLD/binutils/dwarf.c dwarf.c > dwarf.diff
diff -ub $BUOLD/binutils/readelf.c readelf.c > readelf.diff
@end example


@node Merging the binutil changes
@section Merging the binutil changes

Now we can merge the changes by applying the patch files.  @file{include.patch}
should apply with few, if any, conflicts.
@file{binutils.patch} will probably work on all but @file{dwarf.c} and
@file{readelf.c}.
For these two, a visual merge tool (such as @command{meld}) might be
helpful.

It can be difficult to undo a patch operation, so you should first attempt
a dry run. 

@example
cd $INV/fjalar/valgrind/fjalar
patch -p1 -lu -f <~/include.patch --dry-run
patch -p2 -lu -f -F3 <~/binutils.patch --dry-run
@end example

If the patch fails (other than as noted above), it might be indicative
of problems in the patch creation.

When you are ready to apply the patch run:

@example
cd $INV/fjalar/valgrind/fjalar
patch -p1 -lu -f <~/include.patch
patch -p2 -lu -f -F3 <~/binutils.patch
@end example

Handle any conflicts. They are listed in the patch output, or run this
command:

@example
find -name '*.rej'
@end example

For every change in the file you will need to examine both the changed
code as well as our original code and determine if it needs to be hand
merged or if the change is not relevant.

As noted above, @file{dwarf.c} and @file{readelf.c} will probably 
have a lot of conflicts.  As you edit the new files, you may wish to
review the diffs in the previous versions as the new diffs should be similar.
Again, a visual merge tool can make this process easier.


Update ``export BINUTILS_VERSION='' line in @file{fjalar/valgrind/REVISION}.


@node Compiling and Testing
@chapter Compiling and Testing

We must now ensure that the merged code compiles correctly and passes
the regression test suite.

@menu
* Compiling Fjalar::
* Testing Valgrind::
* Testing Fjalar::
* Documenting Changes::
@end menu


@node Compiling Fjalar
@section Compiling Fjalar

The first step is to build Fjalar/Kvasir.

@example
cd $INV/fjalar
make build
@end example

The build target should @command{autogen} the @file{config} and @file{Makefiles}
and compile Fjalar. Fix any compilation errors.


@node Testing Valgrind
@section Testing Valgrind

Before we test Fjalar, it is a good idea to verify we haven't
broken the underlying Valgrind:

@example
cd $INV/fjalar
make test
@end example

The test suite should pass without modification.


@node Testing Fjalar
@section Testing Fjalar

The regression suite is located in the tests/kvasir-tests directory
of the Daikon tree.
It can be run using the following commands (takes about 20 minutes):

@example
cd $INV/daikon/tests/kvasir-tests 
make nightly-summary-w-daikon
@end example

The test suite should pass without modification.


@node Documenting Changes
@section Documenting Changes

Any user-visible changes should be documented in
@file{$INV/daikon/docs/CHANGES}.
Additionally, @file{fjalar/valgrind/REVISION} should be updated
with the Valgrind and VEX revisions that were used for this merge.

The revision for Valgrind can be obtained by:

@example
export VALGRIND_REVISION_NEW=`(cd $INV/valgrind-new; svn info | \
    grep "Last Changed Rev: " | cut -d " " --fields=4)`
echo $VALGRIND_REVISION_NEW
@end example

The revision for VEX can be obtained by:

@example
export VEX_REVISION_NEW=`(cd $INV/valgrind-new/VEX; svn info | \
    grep "Last Changed Rev: " | cut -d " " --fields=4)`
echo $VEX_REVISION_NEW
@end example

You will need to manually edit @file{$INV/daikon/docs/CHANGES} and
add the new revision information to the end of log file. Also, you
will need to comment out the previous values by inserting a @kbd{#}
character at the beginning of the line.


@node Committing
@chapter Committing

Once the test suite passes without errors and all changes are documented,
the changes should be committed to the version control repository.

@menu
* Tell Git about files that were added or removed::
* Commit commands::
@end menu


@node Tell Git about files that were added or removed
@section Tell Git about files that were added or removed

The @samp{git-update} target below searches through the two patch files 
looking for files that were added or deleted.  It then does a
@code{git add} or @code{git remove} as appropriate.

@example
cd $INV/fjalar
make git-update > git.script
# Double-check that it looks OK, then run it:
bash -v ./git.script
@end example


@node Commit commands 
@section Commit commands 

Next, we do a final visual verification of the changes and commit them
to the repository.

@example
cd $INV/fjalar
# Double-check the diffs - standard practice before committing
git diff -b | more
# If looks OK, proceed with commit.
git commit -a -m "Valgrind merge from revision $@{VALGRIND_REVISION@}\
   to $@{VALGRIND_REVISION_NEW@}.  VEX IR merge from $@{VEX_REVISION@} \
   to $@{VEX_REVISION_NEW@}."
@end example

Note: We recommend saving the patch and diff files to further document
the process.


@node Valgrind modifications
@appendix Valgrind modifications

In an effort to aid in determining the appropriate measures to take
when merging conflicted files, this section briefly explains our
modifications to Valgrind files. 

The most important set of changes is the addition of extra shadow
state in Coregrind and VEX. The shadow area is an area of memory that
Valgrind provides for tools to use. Unfortunately, it is of a fixed
size, and Memcheck uses all of it. We've had to increase the size of
the shadow area. 
Additionally, we had to modify some of the VEX architecture files to
include additional information specific to the amd64 and x86 platforms. 
Finally, we had to extend Valgrind's implementation of the C library
with a few extra functions. 

(Remember that we assume @env{$INV} points to a parent directory that
contains both the Daikon and Fjalar source trees.)

@table @asis
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/configure.ac
Change id to Fjalar; add fjalar/Makefile to list of targets
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/coregrind/m_libcbase.c
Add VG_ version of strnlen
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/coregrind/m_libcfile.c
Add VG_ version of mkdir
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/coregrind/m_machine.c
Add get and set functions for additional machine registers
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/coregrind/m_main.c
Increase GDB delay loop time
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/coregrind/m_scheduler/scheduler.c
Modify an assertion that triggers based on shadow size
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/coregrind/pub_core_machine.h
Add additional general purpose registers to the guest state
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/coregrind/pub_core_threadstate.h
The declaration of the extra shadow space
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/include/pub_tool_libcbase.h
Add VG_ version of strnlen
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/include/pub_tool_libcfile.h
Add VG_ version of mkdir and fcntl
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/include/pub_tool_machine.h
Add get and set functions for additional machine registers
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/Makefile.am
Add fjalar to the list of tools; remove empty docs directory
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/VEX/priv/guest_amd64_helpers.c
Add additional general purpose registers to the guest state
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/VEX/priv/guest_x86_helpers.c
Add additional general purpose registers to the guest state
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/VEX/priv/host-generic/reg_alloc2.c
Modify memory calculation using the shadow size
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/VEX/pub/libvex.h
Add additional general purpose registers to the guest state
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/VEX/pub/libvex_ir.h
Add additional general purpose registers to the guest state
@end table


@node Memcheck modifications
@appendix Memcheck modifications

The modifications made to Memcheck are more organizational in nature.
A few functions from @file{mc_main.c} and @file{mc_translate.c} have been made
non-static. An extra header has also been created and filled with their
signatures for use by Fjalar.

Other modifications include:

@table @asis
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/fjalar/mc_malloc_wrappers.c
Calls to DynComp functions for memory operations.
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/fjalar/mc_main.c
Run-time arguments and versioning information for Kvasir to replace
the default Memcheck ones
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/fjalar/mc_translate.c
In Memcheck's instrumentation block, duplicate each case for DynComp.
@end table


@node Supporting new VEX IR Instruction
@appendix Supporting new VEX IR Instruction

It is recommended that you acquaint yourself with the VEX IR by reading
through: 

@table @asis
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/VEX/pub/libvex.h
@item $INV/fjalar/valgrind/VEX/pub/libvex_ir.h
@end table

In addition to being the primary headers for the VEX library, the above
files represent the majority of the public documentation on VEX.
Valgrind's translation pipeline consists of the following: 

@smallexample
Native assembly -> Pre-instrumented VEX IR -> Post-Instrumented VEX IR -> Final assembly
@end smallexample

Valgrind begins by translating the entirety of an assembly basic block
into VEX IR. Valgrind then allows tools to examine the
translated basic block and insert their own instrumentation. Valgrind
finishes by translating the instrumented IR back into the machine's native
assembly. 

In order to keep track of comparabilities, DynComp instruments almost
every VEX IR instruction type. Any added instructions will likely need
to be supported by DynComp. In general DynComp's functionality parallels
Memcheck's, so the best starting point for implementing support for a
new instruction would be to mirror Memcheck's implementation. DynComp's
layout is very similar to Memcheck's, so mirroring functionality should
be fairly straightforward. It is, however, very unlikely that a new
instruction type will be added as the VEX IR is a relatively mature
instruction set and has been in use for almost 9 years at the time of
this writing. 

Another type of addition that will need to be supported are added
"IR Expressions." Most VEX IR instructions are implemented as a set
of IR Expressions - Take the following IR instructions for example: 

@example
t5 = Add32(t12,0x8:I32)
t10 = CmpLE32S(t2,0x21:I32)
@end example

The above IR Instructions are of the type PUT and they store the
result of an IR Expression into a temporary. These instructions consist
of the destination temporary, an IR Expression, which conceptually is
the operation to be formed, and the arguments to that expression. Most
IR Instructions will have a similar format. DynComp is particularly
interested in analyzing all possible IR Expressions. 

@example
$INV/fjalar/valgrind/fjalar/kvasir/dyncomp_translate.c
@end example

contains the following set of functions for processing IR Expressions. 

@table @code
@item @strong{IRExpr* expr2tags_DC ( DCEnv* dce, IRExpr* e )}
The main expression handling function. Contains a switch which is
responsible for delegating expression handling to one of the other functions
@item @strong{IRExpr* expr2tags_Qop_DC(...)}
Responsible for the handling of expressions which take 4 arguments. 
@item @strong{IRExpr* expr2tags_Triop_DC(...)}
Responsible for the handling of expressions which take 3 arguments. 
@item @strong{IRExpr* expr2tags_Binop_DC(...)}
Responsible for the handling of expressions which take 2 arguments. 
@item @strong{IRExpr* expr2tags_Unop_DC(...)}
Responsible for the handling of expressions which take 1 argument. 
@item @strong{IRExpr* expr2tags_Ldle_DC(...)}
Responsible for the handling of load expressions
@item @strong{IRExpr* expr2tags_CCall_DC(...)}
Responsible for the handling of calls to pure functions.
@item @strong{IRExpr* expr2tags_Mux0X_DC(...)}
Responsible for the handling of multiplexing expressions
@end table

If a new IR Expression is added, it will need to be handled by one of
the above functions. The easiest way to implement it will be to base it
on the implementation of an existing instruction. Alternatively, it
should be straightforward to mimic Memcheck's handling of the expression.

@iftex
@contents
@end iftex

@bye
